# Documentation for the `SASPACer` package.
  
----------------------------------------------------------------
 
 *SASPACer to create SAS package using excel file* 
  
----------------------------------------------------------------
 
### Version information:
  
- Package: SASPACer
- Version: 0.3.2
- Generated: 2025-08-26T20:58:14
- Author(s): Ryo Nakaya (nakaya.ryou@gmail.com)
- Maintainer(s): Ryo Nakaya (nakaya.ryou@gmail.com)
- License: MIT
- File SHA256: `F*0689E3A3EB5F2DC5D4B11784665281B24530AA135985D9AEEAB4911137D41F63` for this version
- Content SHA256: `C*8ED74584F58165C184D1F8612E77FD39C30EB5744407459F8F17C771AC08C8BC` for this version
  
---
 
# The `SASPACer` package, version: `0.3.2`;
  
---
 

### SASPACer ###

This is a package for easily creating SAS packages.

All you need is to fill package information in the template excel 
(you can find it in additional contents).
`SASPACer` has a macro(`%ex2pac()`) to convert excel with package information into
SAS package folders and files, and generate SAS package using the `%generatePackage()`
macro (the generation is optional but executed by default).

macro(`%pac2ex()`) can convert package zip file into excel file with package information as well.

list of macros:  
- `%ex2pac()`  
- `%pac2ex()`  

### References ###
1. Bartosz Jablonski, "My First SAS Package - a How To", SGF Proceedings, Paper 1079-2021, 
   https://communities.sas.com/t5/SAS-Global-Forum-Proceedings/My-First-SAS-Package-A-How-To/ta-p/726319
   https://communities.sas.com/kntur85557/attachments/kntur85557/proceedings-2021/59/1/Paper_1079-2021.pdf

---

  
---
 
  
---
 
Required SAS Components: 
  - Base SAS Software
  - SAS/access interface to PC files
  
---
 
  
---
 
Package contains additional content, run:  `%loadPackageAddCnt(SASPACer)`  to load it
or look for the `saspacer_AdditionalContent` directory in the `packages` fileref
localization (only if additional content was deployed during the installation process).
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------
 
*SAS package generated by SAS Package Framework, version `20250729`*
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------
 
# The `SASPACer` package content
The `SASPACer` package consists of the following content:
 
1. [`%ex2pac()` macro ](#ex2pac-macro-1 )
2. [`%ex2pac_allname()` macro ](#ex2pacallname-macro-2 )
3. [`%ex2pac_allsheet()` macro ](#ex2pacallsheet-macro-3 )
4. [`%ex2pac_set_slash()` macro ](#ex2pacsetslash-macro-4 )
5. [`%pac2ex()` macro ](#pac2ex-macro-5 )
6. [`%pac2ex_contents()` macro ](#pac2excontents-macro-6 )
7. [`%pac2ex_folder2sheet()` macro ](#pac2exfolder2sheet-macro-7 )
  
 
8. [License note](#license)
  
---
 
## `%ex2pac()` macro <a name="ex2pac-macro-1"></a> ######

`%ex2pac` is a macro to convert excel file with package information into
SAS package folders and files.

### Parameters

  - `excel_file` : full path for excel file which contains package information

  - `package_location` : location where package files to be stored.
                               Subfolder named package name will be created
                               under the location.

  - `complete_generation` (default=Y) : If user want to create only package structure, 
                                        please change complete_generation=N.
                                        By default, `%ex2pac` execute `%generatePackage()` 
                                        to create .zip and .md.


### Excel file to read

  Easy to understand the structure. Take a look anyway.
  In sheets like macros, the `%ex2pac` uses body information if body column is filled,
  while refers file in location column if body column is blank.
  (This is a situation where macros(or other files) were already created somewhere in a file and
  would like to use it instead of copying contents in body column of the excel.)


### Flow of the `%ex2pac` macro

  1. Create package subfolder in the location.
     Name of the subfolder will be set as the package name.
  2. Create description.sas
  3. Create license.sas
  4. Create subfolders like 01_formats, 02_functions, etc. in reference to
     the excel sheet names.
  5. Create sas files based on information described in each excel sheet
  6. Run `%generatePackages()`

### Sample code

~~~sas
%ex2pac(
  excel_file=C:\Temp\template_package.xlsx,
  package_location=C:\Temp\SAS_PACKAGES\packages,
  complete_generation=Y)
~~~

### Note:

  1. `%ex2pac` expects the operating system to be either Windows or a non-Windows environment
  (such as Linux, Unix, etc.). The `&SYSSCP` macro variable is used to identify the current OS.
  Only tested in Windows.

  2. Libref named `e2p_xls` is used in the macro.
  3. Max length of 32767 bytes is the limit in both cells in excel and reference file(.sas) in location column
  due to limitations in excel cell max length and max length of SAS variables used in the macro.

---

  
---
 
## `%ex2pac_allname()` macro <a name="ex2pacallname-macro-2"></a> ######

This is internal utility macro used in `%ex2pac`.
(Called in `%ex2pac_allsheet` macro)

Purpose:
To create contents in xxx.sas reading excel sheet.

  
---
 
## `%ex2pac_allsheet()` macro <a name="ex2pacallsheet-macro-3"></a> ######

This is internal utility macro used in `%ex2pac`.

Purpose:
To create sheets.

  
---
 
## `%ex2pac_set_slash()` macro <a name="ex2pacsetslash-macro-4"></a> ######

This is internal utility macro used in `%ex2pac`.

Purpose:
To switch separator character (slash or back slash) based on OS.

  
---
 
## `%pac2ex()` macro <a name="pac2ex-macro-5"></a> ######

`%pac2ex` is a macro to convert package zip file into
excel file with package information.

### Parameters

  - `zip_path` : full path for package zip file
  - `xls_path` : full path for excel file to output
  - `overwrite` : N for not overwriting (default is Y)
  - `kill` : Y for kill all datasets in WORK (default is N)

### Flow of the `%pac2ex` macro

  1. Scan package ZIP contents
  2. Read each ZIP entry line-by-line into _PAC2EX_xxx datasets
  3. Process DESCRIPTION and LICENSE
  4. Process macros/contents calling `%pac2ex_contents`
  5. Export to Excel sheets calling `%pac2ex_folder2sheet`

### Sample code

~~~sas
%pac2ex(
  zip_path=C:\Temp\packagename.zip,
  xls_path=C:\Temp\package_info.xlsx,
  overwrite=Y,
  kill=Y
)
~~~

### Note:

Only tested in Windows.

---
  
---
 
## `%pac2ex_contents()` macro <a name="pac2excontents-macro-6"></a> ######

This is internal utility macro used in `%pac2ex`.

Purpose:
To create datasets by contents.

  
---
 
## `%pac2ex_folder2sheet()` macro <a name="pac2exfolder2sheet-macro-7"></a> ######

This is internal utility macro used in `%pac2ex`.

Purpose:
To output contents into excel sheet.

  
---
 
  
---
 
# License <a name="license"></a> ######
 
	Copyright (c) [2025] [Ryo Nakaya]

  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy  
  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal  
  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights  
  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell     
  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is         
  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:                      
                                                                                
  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included       
  in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.                        
                                                                                
  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR    
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,      
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE   
  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER        
  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, 
  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE 
  SOFTWARE.                                                                 
 
  
---
 
